Open Podcast API 11/04/2023
===

present: Ciar치n (FW), Jonathan (GfN), Keunes (AP) and Frederik ([MusicPod](https://github.com/ubuntu-flutter-community/musicpod))

Ciar치n to update:

* Fetch logic:
    * All timestamp fields must be checked against the `since` parameter in the call (`subscription_changed`, `guid_changed`)
* Deletion logic:
    * `is_deleted` boolean field should be replaced with a timestamp field that is included in fetch calls to inform clients of deletions
    * A deleted subscription should be reinstated by a client adding a new subscription with the same GUID. The `subscription_changed` and `guid_changed` fields should reflect the date that the subscription is reinstated. The `deleted` timestamp field should be NULLed
    * On receipt of a deleted subscription, the client should present the user with the option to **remove** their local data or **send** their local data to the server to reinstate the subscription details

Keunes to add a project goal/description to the [Index page](https://github.com/OpenPodcastAPI/api-specs/blob/main/docs/index.md) directly in the PR (use [MyST formatting](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)).

We'll call the specs 'pre-release' or 'ALPHA' until we have implemented all specs that we deem as 'required' for all servers. Ciar치n will add a banner at the top of the pages to warn readers of this.

JonOfUs to add a GitHub Actions workflow for PRs to create and publish a preview of them (template [here](https://github.com/OpenPodcastAPI/api-specs/issues/28))

Once the above changes are reflected, we should merge the subscriptions endpoint spec to have something on the site.

We can use some Creative Commons license for this specification (tbd). Reference implementations can pick their own license (gPodder for Nextcloud & Funkwhale will have AGPL).

Ciar치n will be in a podcast early May, would be good to have the Subscriptons endpoint merged by then.

## Future discussion

* Ensure that user data is separated by user ID
* Outline what data can be shared and what is per-user data
* Reflect these rules in the spec for multi-tenant and single-tenant servers
* What calls are core/required; which ones are 'feature' ([GH discussion](https://github.com/orgs/OpenPodcastAPI/discussions/16))
* Declaring versions & supported endpoints (well-known/other way; [Matrix](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.6/client-server-api/#capabilities-negotiation) e.g. does this at `$prefix/v1/capabilities`)

###### tags: `meeting` `project-management` `OpenPodcastAPI`