2024-05-06 18:00 (6pm)
===
:::info
***Next meeting: 2024-05-21 12:30 CET (12:30pm)***
:::

Netlify has accepted our open source plan request! Astro site is deployed!
It is deployed at: https://openpodcastapi.netlify.app/ and https://openpodcastapi.org

***

### Episode identification (sync-ID)
Last meeting notes: https://pad.funkwhale.audio/kIRwEOYDRNqTA4np6vbBVg#


| Test case | Comments | Test case OK? ✖✔ |
| :--- | :--- | :---: |
| **rss feed without episode guids (old)**<br>IDs need to be generated once |  |  |
| **server doesn’t know of new sync-ID, and phone doesn’t know of old one**<br>Old phone dies after listening, publisher changes GUID, new phone gets new GUID from feed and then synchronises with sync server.<br> | We need a mechanism to deduplicate episdes. |  |
| **new client connects to server**<br>Client doesn't yet have sync-IDs of the episodes it finds in the RSS feed. | We need a matching mechanism. If GUID is podcast-unique it's easy. But we need a fall-back/priority list (helpful across all scenarios). |  |
| **Same feed has identical enclosure URL as an existing episode**<br>Podcaster goes on holiday and republishes existing episode (although often they'd record a new intro). |  |  |
|  |  |  |

Episode deduplication in Podverse: at beginning of parsing, compare to already known episodes; a) hide items that are no longer in the feed & b) add items that are new in the feed; after a while, clean up (delete) episodes.
Episode matching:
* guid (coverage seems to have improved a lot over time), icw identifier of the podcast
* enclosure URL as fallback (which is problematic as different feeds can point to same episode)

Approach: deletion of episode from feed seen as author wants episode to be deleted from the internet. Exception: clips - linked episodes are kept as 'hidden' rows.

#### Fallback episode matching

Podverse has been cleaning the dataset and dropping 'Title' from episode data. However, it could still act as 'second class' citizen.

Enclosure URL might be a better candidate.

https://pad.funkwhale.audio/oCfs5kJ6QTu02d_oVHW7DA#Fetch-hash:
1. GUID
2. Enclosure URL
3. Episode URL

However, this wouldn't consider Hans-Peter's comments about title & date being helpful.

Also: guideline or hard spec? Former; we only need to specify which data is mandatory for episode matching/deduplication.

Is there a difference between 'episode matching' (assigning a sync-ID at client level) and deduplication?

Waterfall options:
* If step 1 (GUID) fails, check for step 2 etc
* If step 1 (GUID) fails, consider a new episode & continue, then at any later time let client use the deduplication mechanism and -endpoint to deduplicate

When & where is this waterfall run?
* At client side when refreshing feed.
* At server side when receiving 'new episode' from client.

1. GUID
2. Enclosure URL
3. Matching of at least 2 out of 3 relevant fields:
    1. Publishing Date
    2. Episode link
    3. Title

If there's no match, go to the next step. If there's more than 1 match, take only those matches to the next stage.

If you fall through the entire waterfall, you assume duplicates, which then need to be flagged as such (see deduplication end-point).

#### How to proceed

We haven't reviewed all edge-cases; table is incomplete. We accept, however, that there will be edge-cases (with data loss) and get back to the edge-cases (completing the table) when we discuss deduplication endpoint. We can focus on the 99%, for episode matching based on waterfall.

### Episode endpoint roadmap

Current state of data fields: https://pad.funkwhale.audio/s/88C5eXrRq

> TODO: criticially examine which of the fields need a timestamp. Think of naming scheme for timestamp fields & JSON structure for endpoints.

Collate the information:
* Which fields need timestamps + proposal: https://pad.funkwhale.audio/s/6mWuDexgz#Data-timestamps
* Actions (calls) under the episode endpoint: https://pad.funkwhale.audio/oCfs5kJ6QTu02d_oVHW7DA#
* Deduplication endpoint already necessary? (Not a high priority; versioning & authentication to be done first).
